okay welcome to the session on jbuilder
five for Mac OS 10 so many of you've
seen me before in one session or another
my name's Blake stone chief scientist
for Borland software corporation we've
dumped the IMP rise moniker for good and
we'll be spending a lot of time looking
at a lot of detailed features in
jbuilder you've probably seen some quick
overview views you've seen a smattering
of features but not a lot of explanation
for what's behind them and no look
really at what's new in jbuilder five
especially since
Jabil is really new to the Macintosh
community as a whole at this point but I
know there's some of you out there who
are already table their users and
they're just waiting so we'll showcase
some of the tables or five new features
as well why don't we have a look in fact
at what we're gonna do with the tour of
jbuilder five we're gonna try to walk
through the major areas but it's a big
deep product anybody who's used it knows
that I'll try to give you a hint of
what's there but if you don't see
something you're interested in get ahold
of us get on the newsgroup check out the
CD we've handed out whatever it takes
make sure that you find out the answer
to your question and of course I'll be
hovering around the conference for the
next day or two as well we're going to
cover some of the new features in
jbuilder 5 and we're gonna look a little
bit at writing Macintosh specific code
in jbuilder because we keep talking
about pure Java and how Jabil does pure
Java and some people confuse that with
being swing specific Java is Java you
can has easily write cocoa applications
in Java with a few caveats we'll talk
about a little bit as you can right
swing applications and so that's that's
an interesting topic by itself we'll
talk a little bit about the preview CD
you got and how to get that up and
running to the best of its ability
especially getting a hold of the update
that you're required to the VM from
Apple to really make it sing and then
we'll have a Q&A session so Jay both are
the basics that we're gonna walk through
you'll see everything of course uses the
Aqua look and feel this is courtesy more
of Apple's work than anything we've done
we've tried to make sure that we use
swing purely for all of our user
interface and so the Aqua look and
does a great job of translating our
appearance into a really nice Macintosh
user experience there are some specific
things we've done and maybe we'll have a
chance to highlight a couple of those
along the way where we felt what we were
doing wasn't quite mac-like enough and
so we actually do have some behavior
that differs on the Mac from other
platforms but solely to try to give you
a more comfortable user experience
jbuilder focuses very much on allowing
you to keep directly in touch with your
source code it differs from some of the
other major tools out there in that not
only do we get you direct access to your
source code you spend a lot of time in
the editor or manipulating code but we
store your source code and just standard
files there's no binary repository
anywhere that hides your code from you
so you can very easily use jbuilder in
conjunction with other tools that expect
you to have direct access to your code
we're going to talk a little bit about
the performance of the editor because
that's something that I think is an
interesting topic for Java developers
everybody was told from day one Java is
slow Java is slow you hear it often
enough and you begin to believe it but
the actual fact is that Java code is
amazingly quick hot spot is a startling
technology and can do a lot of things in
a dynamic compiler that you can't even
do in a static compiler so we bring a
lot of performance out of it and you'll
see a lot of that in the editor the
editor does some interesting structural
analysis that if you were at the Java
developer tools session we talked about
a little bit and of course we added
something to the editor to make it
comfortable for you we added key
bindings that mirror the TextEdit
project builder sort of the standard
classical apple key bindings as well as
the BBEdit slash code warrior key
bindings that you may be accustomed to
so you don't have to retrain your
fingers for a whole new set of
keystrokes we're also going to talk a
little bit about navigation through your
source code code insight and Javadoc and
how they increase your productivity
right from day one and and this is gonna
be kind of an ongoing theme that's
increased productivity how do we make
you more productive each and every day
in the product rather than how do we
provide some things that look good in a
demo and may help you learn on the first
few days but then you grow beyond them
no no no these are tools that you will
use again and again
again as you continue to develop Java
code we're gonna go from there into a
little bit more about the project
orientation of jbuilder the fact that
the project structure isn't something
you need to spend a lot of time fiddling
with and jbuilder there are a lot of
other products where you need to add
every single source file
well we deal with projects of thousands
of source files and so if adding and
removing them from your project is a
major maintenance nightmare that's
something we need to get rid of and in
fact we've done some very interesting
work on that area we've got a very fast
compiler you'll see that every single
demo I do of course the compiler will
kick in with very clever dependency
checking we'll talk a little bit about
that and a very powerful archive builder
so if your project construction process
involves producing a jar for someone we
can help you out there too so let's have
a look at those very basic
characteristics of jbuilder if we can
flip to the system in front of me here
we'll go ahead and bring jbuilder up see
how well the optical mouse tracks on
this lovely surface and jbuilder is is
structured so that you can see a number
of things at once and all might well
introduce them before we get a little
bit deeper the project view in the upper
left-hand corner here is where you see
the structure of your project the
packages that comprise your project your
source files the lower left is where you
see structural information and the
center is where you see the content view
where we can open any number of files
concurrently so I've got in this case
welcome app and welcome frame open which
we can flip back and forth between along
the bottom of the content view we have a
number of different viewers for that
particular content and we'll see some of
those a little bit later but just so you
know what's where and why I'm doing the
things I'm doing we focus on the editor
a lot of the time so the editor had
better be fast it had better just keep
up with my typing as fast as I can type
it had better scroll quickly through my
code so I'm not waiting for it a lot and
that's not all that impressive until you
realize that every single line of code
and jbuilder is written in Java so your
applications can look this fast have
this kind of response in performance so
if you were concerned about Java from
that standpoint please don't be also we
do a lot of structural analysis on the
code so as I type slash and I'm about to
hit a star you
notice that we can immediately note that
all of that is a comment there is no
structure we've colored it green and
just as quickly it comes back so very
very quick analysis and we talked about
this a little bit in another session but
just in case you weren't there and out
of interest how many people here weren't
at the developer tools session for Java
earlier today okay a number of you out
there so if you were please forgive me
we'll try not to dwell a lot on things
that we talked about there but this
structure over here shows me the
structure of the class I'm working with
and so if I declare a new integer it
shows up in that in that structural view
we can actually control how quickly
these things are updated and we've got
it set about as fast as it'll go so as I
continue to type you can see that on the
fly in real time we're able to discover
that this variable name is changing over
here so that that gives us the ability
really to give you constant head
heads-up about the state of your file
because not only can we show you the the
class and its members and give you a
quick navigational interface we can also
also show you if you make a mistake like
omitting a closed brace here that there
are structural errors in your code
immediately so that you know what's
going on you can find out that there is
no catch associated with this try
because we never close the try block and
just that fast we can corrected without
ever going through a compile cycle so
that's a really important piece of
getting you performance in the
environment by the way as far as the
editor goes again for those of you who
weren't here
it's very fully featured so I can do
things like block indent and uh Nintendo
problem comment out a set of lines a
whole bunch of very helpful keystrokes
and a bunch of quick mechanisms for
typing common structures like if I want
to put an if block in place I can put in
an if/else block and expand that
template with just a couple of
keystrokes all of these things are
customizable for your preferred key
bindings so I can easily go in and say
I'd like to customize a key binding and
change the keystrokes or even just go in
and use one of the prefab ones like my
Macintosh or Macintosh code where your
key bindings
so that gets us started but all that is
is a fancy text editor with a few
navigational aids
more than that we understand a lot about
the structure of what you're doing with
Java code
that's where code insight kicks in code
inside is our technology that allows us
as you type code to be able to prompt
you with a little bits of help for
example if I type enable events and open
brace we see from structural analysis
that that method requires one parameter
of type long the parameter being called
events to enable so I don't need to look
that up in documentation it's right
there at my fingertips so if I go a
little further and type a w/t event dot
we also notice in this case hey these
are the members that are available in
this case a lot of constants that I
could pass here and we can just pick one
of those or if you just know with what
it is but you don't want to type a lot
of it I can type a piece of the name and
then ask it to expand the rest and
because there's a unique expansion it
just goes ahead and does it for me
without prompting so these are again
extreme productivity aids but they kick
in a lot of other ways as well what I'm
doing here is a Productivity aid is is
having it analyze the code and give me
helpful information about what I might
want to type on the other hand if what I
want to do is go and look at that code
we have navigational aids to get places
quickly so the enable events method that
I'm calling well I can easily say go and
browse that symbol and what it will do
is it'll figure out what class that
method is in and go and find the source
code for the method so I can get to the
method that I'm calling work with it and
with a keystroke or using the browser
like interface here with the home and
arrow icons be able to get back to where
I went from very very quickly similarly
we can use that same structural analysis
that if I'm on this available enable
events method I can just hit f1 and will
go and look up Javadoc on that
particular method find the piece of Java
doc and show the detail Java doc on the
particular method so we can see the rest
of the methods in the class everything's
available it's sort of at our fingertips
here so that gets us a really productive
environment for day-to-day coding but
again there are a lot of other tools
here and the project orientation is one
those tools if we're working with a
large project with a lot of files we
don't want to have to worry about how do
I get all of the appropriate files in my
project instead all you need to tell us
for a project is where the source is
located I'm gonna go and create a new
project and I'm going to accept all the
defaults here for an untitled project
but I'm going to tell it that I already
have source code for this project in
another location
specifically I'm gonna go look at the
samples we provide and pick up the chest
sample source so if I go ahead and build
this project immediately my project pane
shows me that these are the packages I
have their sub packages and all of the
source files I don't need to define this
by hand and in fact if I were to go and
check code out of a repository into that
directory I can easily refresh and get
the up-to-date information or next time
I open the project it would just be
there without my having to ask for so
very powerful tool now all I need to do
to build this project is request to
compile and the compiler kicks in it's
interesting we're not getting a whole
bunch of build progress reported of
course I am working with an interim
build of the Java VM here so heaven
knows what we'll run into the usual demo
gremlins but as you saw there it didn't
take very long it's hard to believe it
did anything at all but in fact it just
produced class files for every single
source in here and as you saw a moment
ago there's a number of packages and sub
packages and everything was compiled
subsequent compiles are amazingly quick
as well if I go into a particular file
and we'll just mark it dirty by you know
making a change to it and then go ahead
and say recompile this project then it
notices very quickly there's only one
file that needs to be recompiled but
it's not like your typical system where
if I'd made a change in the API that
somebody else required it would just be
broken no no if I make a change that
somebody else is going to call then it
notices that not only does this file
need to be compiled but turns out that's
API nobody else uses wouldn't you know
it I don't know this particular demo
real well I love just sort of flying by
the seat of my pants it finds that in
fact there's a reference to that method
somewhere else and it tried to recompile
all the files that required that piece
of API so it's a very frightening lis
complicated system but in fact one that
just takes care of all the grunge work
for you I work on a project that has
thousands and thousands of source files
jbuilder and I use J builder as my IDE
and I can compile changes in a matter of
seconds to this enormous project and it
follows all of the dependencies for me
and takes care of all the details so
that's pretty amazing from my
perspective I'm not going to save my
changes the next thing that I mentioned
is that once I'm done building a project
and I've got a bunch of files I probably
want to deliver that to someone and so
archive building and is an important
part of the compiler the build process
so what we've got is a technology called
the archive wizard all I do is go into
the archive builder wizard here and say
I'd like to build an application from
this I can set all sorts of options or
accept defaults I can come in at any
later time to any of the jars that I'm
trying to build and edit their
characteristics in this case I'd like to
specify a particular class as the main
class for this application and if I
remember correctly we'll go ahead and
pick the server side of this particular
chess op and now when I go to recompile
it's going to recompile my files did I
actually save that accidentally that
would be bad
we'll go ahead and look for it yeah
accidentally did one of the things I'm
using here by the way I'm just typing in
a tree
and it brings up a little search
mechanism that allows me to search the
tree it's kind of interesting because I
can search based on wildcards and find
all of the things that start with GE or
say I'd like to find the things that
have PL somewhere in them and then move
among those that Trin's have to be only
one so let's go ahead and change this
back apologies on that so now it goes
ahead and compiles and creates the
archive so it's built a jar for me that
contains all of my classes that contains
the manifest entries and I can verify
that by actually opening the jar in the
product and having a look at its
contents including the manifest file so
really quick way of going ahead and and
dealing with projects building output
it's not something you would expect from
Java but having built this over time
we've gained really a new appreciation
for just how fast Java can be if I can
get back to my slides please
so I promised we would go through this
at a fairly blistering pace please
excuse me I normally like interactive
sessions but there's just far too many
people further back to make that really
practical here so we'll take Q&A at the
end
visual design is a big piece of the
jbuilder environment because Java beans
are a big piece of the set of Java
specifications they're a very early
player in the in the numerous Chaves
backs that are out there now but they're
an important part of how we take a
class-based language because Java really
understands classes and members of the
lowest level but doesn't have any
component based architecture at the
language level and layers on top of that
a component architecture that
understands properties and events so
jbuilder understands the java beans
architecture and provides a very
sophisticated designer so you can take
java beans from anywhere java beans from
sun like AWT and swing although I'd
argue about swing being acceptable java
beans occasionally java beans from
Borland and we provide a set of data
access technologies and data express
that really are layered over top of JDBC
DB swing which are data where swing
components and Internet beans which
allow you to produce dynamic HTML using
a set of beans or third-party components
because Java beans is
and we can drop any beam into the IDE
and we'll look at how easy that kind of
thing is to do all of this is done using
Borland's patented two-way tool
technology and two-way tools are what
allow us to do visual manipulation of a
file and then go back and modify the
source code and see those changes
reflected dynamically in the graphical
environment so that you can seamlessly
move back and forth there's no code
generated that you aren't allowed to
touch it's your code so let's have a
look at that
again back to the demo machine please
they're gonna get sick of my saying that
they know they should switch back to the
demo machine but so if we go into just a
very simple application here this this
Welcome app and I go ahead and open the
Welcome frame in the designer what's
going on now is we're having a look at
the source code and figuring out what it
looks like and it looks like a very very
empty frame so that's fine I can start
with this as a starting point and say
I'd like this frame to use an XY layout
which is sort of an absolute positioning
technology I'd like to put a button and
a text field on it and perhaps I'd like
to put a scrolling area and a tree as
well and everything I'm doing here is
generating source code if you look at
the this.jb init method this is sort of
my static construction of this this
environment but I can do again this
manipulation of code or manipulation
visually either way it's up to me so if
I don't like the text on that button I
want the text on that button to say add
and again if you weren't there I did a
rather perverse little demonstration a
moment ago in in one of the other
sessions I actually put an expression in
here well let's be even more obnoxious
about this and let's go between J button
one and set text and add a comment so
we've got here a piece of legal Java
code that has changed the label on this
button to add item and if we put back to
the designer the designer parses through
that and says the button has the text
add item in it nice stuff goes a step
further
let's say I change that text to remove
item well it's got an expression in the
comment and a bunch of other sort of
nasty stuff in there so if I make that
change and go back to my source code
what happens well we leave everything in
your code the way it was and make a
surgical change to replace only the
expression that used to be there with
the new value of the Eve typed in so
again it's your source code we just help
you with it so what I've got here is
I've got a fairly basic and relatively
unattractive layout but if you'll excuse
me I'll just sort of juggle that a
little bit here one of the important
things about Java or layout managers
there are some slick technologies in
interface builder for helping you
position things but you're still
positioning and using absolute
positioning what happens when I then
translate my application into another
language and the text on a button gets
longer well do you need to come up with
another set of absolute positions for
that or what if I change my font size
then everything needs to be arranged
differently and that's sort of difficult
to deal with
well Java uses layout managers to cope
with this but layout managers can be
tough to understand there's one called
grid bag layout that's the most powerful
perhaps and it would allow me to do a
lot of very sophisticated manipulation
of this but I would need to know all
about grid bag constraints so instead
what we can do is we can use J builder
to help me out here so I'm gonna lay
things out the way I want them and then
go back and say I don't want to use XY
layout what I want to do is use grid bag
layout and behind the scenes what we've
done is translate all of my calls with
absolute positioning into grid bag
constraints some of you have obviously
done some grid bag work before so we can
we can literally go through and resize
this and you'll see that we have
inferred some rather reasonable resizing
behaviors for this so the designer is a
pretty cool piece of technology even if
you think about it in terms of standard
components but what if we want to write
our own components has anybody here
tried to add a component to interface
builders palette be one or two
you know the rest of you haven't tried
it because you knew it was easy right
I'm sorry to pick on it but really it's
an early component model where the
important thing was being able to
provide reusable components and for us
we decided that it was important to be
able to create reusable components so
I'm going to create one right now yes
thank you so what I'm going to do is
create a new class and this particular
class I'm going to call my button and
it's going to descend from Java X swing
J button so it's just a button at this
point and we go ahead and and generate
some code we have a look at it to see
what if you need to do anything in
particular and all I'm going to do in my
button is go ahead and say by default
I'm going to set the background on the
button to the color green and if there
are any people here who worked on on the
Aqua looking field they may be cringing
at this moment is this a good bill to do
this in and we'll find out so what I've
done is I've created a new button here
and of course we actually need to import
java.awt to get access to teller
constants so I've got a new a new button
here what if I go into my code and I
want to use one of those well for one
thing grid bag is not the friendliest
place to manipulate things so I'm gonna
go ahead although we do provide you a
lot of hints about what the various in
sets are and so forth and you can
visually manipulate them that's kind of
nice but I'm going to flip back to X Y
layout so I can go ahead and use
absolute positioning and bring my new
being in how hard is it well you could
add it to the palette using a couple of
steps but you could also just say I'd
like to use the any bean tool and just
go up and find it and so in this case I
have this comm Borland we're still in
samples right welcome my button so I can
go and pick up a new button that I've
created and drop it in place
green background setting was not a good
choice I take it
let's go ahead and set the foreground
color instead so let's change this to
set foreground I don't need to spell the
whole thing codeinsight will give me a
hand there go ahead and compile that and
come back to welcome frame now you
notice a couple of interesting things
one I changed the class on the fly and
we picked up the new version of the
class and injected into your existing
code here so you can do iterative
development - you don't need to shut
down and restart or anything like that
we'll just pick up new versions of the
bean as fast as you can throw them at us
but second you'll notice that we have a
new bean dropped in just like that now
let's go one step further I could go
zillions of steps further but this is a
limited session of course I'm going to
do a get foo method and a public void
set foo method and I'm going to be
really obnoxious and not do anything
with the value perhaps get food will
always return sorry and go ahead and
compile this pull it back to two my
welcome frame and are we seeing just
paint issues and what we'll see is that
the foo showed up in our inspector
automatically no work on my behalf it
noticed that is this string and gives
you a string type editor for
that's javabeans and the visual designer
there's some incredibly slick stuff that
you can do here I could get into
database components what have you if we
have enough time we'll come back and
we'll look at some of those things but
if we can return to the slides
we'll move on from visual design Java
server pages and servlets this is a big
deal for a lot of people looking at Java
for for server-side development it's a
technology that's blessed by sun is the
standard way of doing dynamic content
because of course in the web static HTML
is yesterday that's not interesting
anymore what we want is content that's
generated on the fly and jbuilder
provides some very interesting support
for dynamic web content through Java
server pages and servlets one of the
things of course is that with jsps what
you have is a mix of HTML and java now
we wouldn't recommend that you embed a
lot of Java in your HTML typically what
you're going to embed are references to
significant other technology that you
you maintain elsewhere so that you don't
have your presentation and your behavior
too intermixed but it still gives you
the flexibility of choosing on a variety
of of interesting ways what content to
call in dynamically into your static
HTML it's just that we need a way to
edit this stuff although we need to be
able to run it so you could take that
JSP page and set up a server and get the
server running and open your web browser
and view it but it'd be nice if we did
something there so we'll show you that
and of course all the way through to
actually viewing it in an HTML viewer
jbuilder integrates this whole process
and we'll see how there are a bunch of
new things in jbuilder 5 that if you're
familiar with servlets and jsps might be
of interest to you support for multiple
servlet contexts is one of them before
we supported this single servlet context
and that was sort of annoying if you
needed to integrate several different
servlets which had references to quote
absolute positions within their context
that conflicted with one another and to
integrate those into one project things
got confusing so now we allow you to
separate those into two separate servlet
contexts that have their own root level
for the set of HTML references
it's also interesting to generate war
files now why before JSP and servlets
were individual files that you sort of
managed on your own now there's a new
standard for web archives Wars that you
want to be able to deploy a whole set of
functionality in one go and jbuilder
will build your war for you also vaguely
related but you know didn't want to
slide into on its own web start bundling
did anybody here see the web start demo
and the java intro a couple of people
here so Web Start is a neat way of
delivering your application all you need
to do is bundle it up with a web page
with a bunch of things and a bunch of
XML and well wouldn't it be nice if you
didn't have to do that somebody else did
it for you and that's what J Builders
here for we're also gonna talk a little
bit about Java debugging I didn't want
to do too many flips back and forth
between the slides so we'll have a look
at this a little bit because if there's
anything you spend perhaps as much time
in as your source code editor it's
probably your debugger I'll admit it I
don't write bug-free code the first pass
but by the time I'm done with it
it's in great shape because we provide
you a lot of really powerful tools so
we'll talk a little bit about the Java
debugger that's an integrated debugger
and the IDE and a couple of the things
that it does that are really noteworthy
not only can you browse through objects
and so forth but we provide full
expression evaluation that means not
only can I see the value of a variable
I can call a method on an object and see
the return of that or I can even modify
it by calling a setter or something so
it's a very sophisticated debugger from
that perspective and it provides you the
ability to edit absolutely any data type
a lot of people will say yeah we can
modify data in ours but they usually
mean we can modify primitives integers
and characters and if you're really
lucky maybe strings but in practice we
can actually edit just about any data
type which is pretty neat it also has
extremely flexible breakpoints
everybody's used to seeing the click on
a line and get a breakpoint but we
provide line breakpoints class
breakpoints that's kind of interesting I
want to know
anytime anybody calls any method in a
given class and you can use wildcards
for the name of the class so you could
say any class with the letter E or
something equally sewing but there are
times anything in this package for
example field access and field
modification if the underlined
vn supports it we allow you to provide
break points on modification and access
to fields which is pretty slick stuff
that's the similar in some ways to
database break points in traditional CE
debugger except that we're able to say
for any member or for any instance of
this class whenever this field is
touched so you don't need to try to
track down where all those things are
and we can also provide break points on
exceptions so you want to know of course
I've got an exception handler for my IO
exception but I want to stop if an IO
exception is actually thrown and we can
do that with our debugger also of course
once the debug debugger has a breakpoint
defined you want to be able to refine it
further provide an expression that gets
evaluated or provide a number of times
through that it needs to go before it
will actually break or even provide an
expression that gets logged and not have
it stopped at all these are all features
of the debugger that we have so let's
see both of these things we'll go
through some of the web technology and
we'll go through a little bit of the
debugging technology so I'm gonna start
a brand new project to look at some of
the web stuff and within this project
I'm going to create just an empty JSP
nothing particularly fascinating here
but actually yeah let's go ahead and do
that so
where's my project
and you'll see that and actually let's
add that to my project as well it's
probably something I should have done by
the way a lot of you may have seen this
this this file browser that comes up and
it's not the standard file browser why
we do some interesting things with it
in Java you need to be able to drill
into some file types that you might not
normally look into for example if I've
got a jar it would be sort of nice to be
able to see the directories in the jar
the files in those individual
directories inside the jar and be able
to open those files we provide you that
kind of depths so there's a lot of extra
functionality tacked in here but that's
not what I was about to show excuse me
for getting sidetracked I'm easily
excited by my own product here so we'll
go ahead with this this food JSP and
with this JSP of course what we can do
is is write HTML so I'm going to write
just some some basic HTML here you'll
notice that the structure pane gives you
the same ability to jump to tags as it
gave within within Java source so my
body is not going to be especially
interesting but how about the random
number for the day is and we'll go ahead
and spit out the random number for the
day you'll see that these special tags
are colored differently why because
they're an indication of something very
interesting we've now switched from HTML
mode where we're syntax highlighting in
HTML the Java mode where we'll start
recognizing Java keywords things like if
that's pretty cool but it's even cooler
when you start doing something like out
dot and it recognizes that I'm embedded
in a JSP and out has a meaning within a
JSP it's a variable of a particular type
and codeinsight kicks in and shows you
these are the various methods that you
can use here so our coding tools work
and even in this hybrid environment
which is extremely powerful and I could
go ahead and print something in here
what have you what I'm gonna do is just
go to a prefab project just to save time
where I have a more sophisticated
example this calendar JSP goes through
and uses embedded Java as you can see
mix of Java and HTML to create a
calendar for the current month with the
current day selected all I need to do to
run that is just go ahead and say web
run and what we'll do is notice hey
you're trying to run a JSP let's make
sure that that's legal first so we'll
pre compile it so that you can fix any
errors within the IDE then we'll go
ahead and start Tomcat why is that
interesting because Tomcat is the JSP
engine for Apache which of course is
your web server courtesy Mac os10 server
so we're testing using the same
underlying JSP engine that you'll be
using on the server-side we then feed at
the JSP take the results of processing
the JSP and show it and our integrated
HTML viewer so you've got the complete
experience and to end
pretty cool stuff along the way and
we'll just shut that browser down and
you can of course see the actual source
that was emitted if you want to have a
look at exactly what was emitted etc we
created this this web app and a web app
is the this servlet context a web
application defines the context it also
defines a deployment descriptor which we
provide a graphical editor for so that
if you want to build a web archive you
can do so just by going ahead and
building this particular web app and
we'll build the deewaar file for you and
do all the packaging that's required in
the war file to include the actual
executable code the the JSP itself etc
etc so a lot of technology bundled
together I also mentioned that we can do
Web Start bundling for you and if you
want to take an application and deploy
it to web start this is pretty powerful
stuff so I've got an application this
welcome app that we built earlier and
I'm gonna use the archive builder to go
ahead and bundle that up as an
application for me and build the jar now
I want to go ahead and turn that into a
Web Start application how tough is that
well we go to the web tab and say I want
a Web Start launcher I want to call this
my welcome demo it's going to use the
default web app that's fine
the jar file is the Welcome jar that I
just generated that of course is the
directory this is the file jar files are
a little weird that way they're a little
bit of both and I want it to yes to go
ahead and create that homepage for me I
want to give it some meaningful
information about the title to vendor
the description which can help the user
understand what application it is
they're installing and finish and what
it's done is it's built the HTML for
welcome demo for the web start
application so if your user were to go
to this page what they would get is this
message that says hey you don't have Web
Start installed it's a plug-in for your
browser that allows you to automatic
we download Java applications and you
need to install it like any other plugin
this page automatically detects that the
plugin isn't installed gives you the
information about where to go to get the
plugin unfortunately apple hasn't
finished the plug-in just yet so it'll
be up there as soon as the web start
project is finished and your users would
be able to get at it but it's also built
the other piece that's necessary
the jnlp file which is an XML file that
contains the information about my
application and its structure so it's
done all the work necessary to go ahead
and build a web star table application
which is pretty cool stuff so hang on to
your seatbelts well we'll keep going
here at this pace and we'll jump right
on into the debugging side of things
just quick pulse are we going way too
fast or is this about right good
okay we'll keep moving so let's let's
launch into the debugging stop I'm gonna
go and open another project that I have
lying around in my home that has a
couple of really simple things that we
can examine and manipulate for for
debugging purposes I didn't cook up
anything that had any bugs I'm sorry but
if want to see the debugger at work you
just need to know that you have certain
facilities that you've been used to all
along so what we'll do is we'll just
place the the typical line breakpoints
in this and get it started launch the
debugger the debugger who needs to know
the main class which apparently I never
bothered to define for my project and it
brings up a user interface at the bottom
of the screen that gives me my full
debugging power while still having
access to everything else in my
environment I can still switch between
multiple projects I can compile things I
can i can edit code I can do everything
I want and there's a debugger down there
and you'll note the debugger has a tab
at the bottom of the screen
why because you can have multiple
debuggers open concurrently so if you're
working on a client-server application
you can be debugging the client and the
server simultaneously each one has a
full debugger user interface just you
know a little
tidbit so let's go ahead and and resize
this a little bit so I've got a touch
more space to look at things in the
debugger I'm gonna go and see the the
current point where I'm stopped and what
you see here is our standard thread view
which is showing you thread groups the
system thread group contains the main
thread groups which contains the main
thread which is the one that's hit the
breakpoint hence the little red dot with
the the call stack that main has called
foo
it also shows within that scope what's
visible is the this reference which we
can drill into and as I start executing
some code and we'll step a couple of
times we'll also see as other things
come into scope they just appear and we
have this ability to to view things in a
variety of ways in this particular case
we can drill into an object and see that
objects class and we can see that
objects parent that classes parent class
and we can see members belonging to that
particular class for an array we can see
the elements of the array and if you
have an array with tens of thousands of
elements you can do things like say I
only want to see element number 9999
hundred to ninety nine hundred and sixty
and view a subset of the array lots of
little functionality in there more not
enough time to go through it all but
this allows you a very sophisticated way
of looking at information because I can
drill into the array elements and see
that they're really strings these
strings have characteristics the strings
contain arrays so we have this this full
hierarchy of information we can look at
and modify so I've got this variable
four that's been declared and by the way
did you see when I put my cursor over a
tooltip or over a variable what happens
is we get something that tries to
examine what's under the cursor and
display the current value so you don't
need to fiddle around with trying to
find it if it's visible anywhere in your
editor you can just hover over it and
we'll show you the same information but
we can go in and we can say you know I'd
like to change this value we set four to
four will set it to 44 just to be
difficult and now we've modified a
primitive but that's a primitive that's
not very interesting what about an
object
like say a string well wouldn't it be
nice if we could just take this string
and copy and paste it into another
string variable it's pretty cool stuff
it means that I now have full control
over any data type in my environment I
can actually go in and I can cut objects
let's see okay you don't have the key
bindings I'm used to so I can cut this
object and I wind up with a null value
but I could also go through and change
this value by selecting change value and
I am asked to enter an expression of
type string by which I do not mean just
a collection of characters if I wanted
the collection of characters sure I
could go ahead and type that in I mean
if I want to change this I can now
create a string by doing something like
say oh this dot getclass
dot get a name and we'll get the name of
the current class and set that debug
demo debugger
so pretty slick stuff a very very very
powerful debugging environment we won't
go through all of the features but just
sort of as a quick glimpse we have the
ability to set watches on individual
items so if I want to watch this
particular object I can create an object
watch call it buddy and it will show up
on the list of watches I can see all of
the classes that are loaded so if I want
to see static variables I could drill in
and say that Java IO buffered stream has
a default buffer size so I can go and
examine static information see the set
of breakpoints that are currently set
add various types of breakpoints go in
and look at the breakpoints we already
have and say you know I'd like to log a
message instead of stopping or I'd like
to provide a condition or a pass count
so again a lot of flexibility on that
and get a list of all of the classes for
which I'm not interested in stepping
into them have you ever before done the
the step into and then realized oh no
I've stepped into somebody else's
library and I'm debugging their code but
step-over is no good either because
you've got this huge expression that
calls a few of people's other methods
and then calls one of yours well here
you can block particular packages or
particular classes from being traced
into and we block all the Java ones by
default or you can trace into them it's
your choice
so pretty powerful stuff and lastly
there's one tab at the top here you see
this little screen icon that if I step
over something that sends output will go
green to indicate that there is output
waiting for me console Y Oh from my
application and actually you can type in
to this as well and it provides a full
console i/o so if you're not doing a
graphical application you again have
everything you need to work on your
server-side app or your console based
application directly within the
environment without having to turn
elsewhere so hopefully that's enough of
the debugging stuff
and we'll turn back to the slides XML
somebody managed to miss the XML
revolution it seems that that this is
taken over all of us are now to do
everything in XML according to some
magazines we should stop programming in
Java and program in XML other magazines
would would tell us that in fact XML
will simply solve all our problems and
in reality those of us who've worked
with it a little bit just enough to get
the feel for it understand that what XML
is is it's a very powerful tool for
solving a very small part of every
problem so if every single problem is
going to be solved this way then I
better have some tools to work with XML
because it's not going to solve things
for me I better have some basic
understanding of what it is capable of
and my tools that better let me work
with it and that's what jbuilder does is
it provides XML support not in terms of
being an XML IDE but providing the kinds
of things that a Java developers likely
to be interested in because you're going
to interact with XML a little bit
everybody is so XML support provides us
some basic navigation and editing
facilities validation facilities DTD
generation and transformation XML by
itself is neat in a way but XSL which
allows me to provide a style sheet for
transforming one piece of XML into
another piece of XML is much cooler
still so we'll show you what we've been
working on what's new and tables are
five in terms of XML I'm going to go in
and open a sample project actually comes
with the product we provide zillions of
little samples to help you get started
ah yes I'm sorry let me just make sure
that yes there's a demo that was your
cue I'm sorry if I drill down into a an
existing project here that's designed to
showcase some of the XML functionality
we'll see that what we have in here is a
DTD in a couple of XSL files we can look
at the DTD it's exciting if you are into
that sort of thing we can look at the
XSL files and you'll see that we do
syntax highlighting for them we
recommend recognize the file type and we
provide
syntax highlighting we provide basic
navigation facilities so that's pretty
cool it gives you something but a DTD is
interesting partially because it
describes what a valid XML file looks
like so one of the things we should be
able to do is take DTD and say you know
I'd like to generate an XML file that
complies with this that uses the XML
employees as the root element and I'm
gonna go ahead and specify that we're
gonna use the system DTD here for for
this newly generated file and it goes
ahead and says you know I parse that DTD
for you here's a valid chunk of XML now
this isn't something that you would
necessarily do at a production system
but it's kind of critical for you coming
to grips with some piece of DTD
somebody's handed you and starting to
toy with it and get to understand it
that you can quickly get some XML that's
valid and we're gonna drop a little bit
of information in here
perhaps Blake stone Department number
Borland and so we've got some some XML
here and again we have the same sort of
structural view here that we can parse
through and find any of this information
it would be kind of nice if I could come
back and validate this particular XML
and sure enough we can say validate this
and we'll figure out what DTD it's
involved with and apparently I I've
specified the wrong path to get to it
so it is invalid but let me validate
that again and it is valid now if I make
a mistake in it first thing you'll
notice is our little error insight kicks
in and says hey you know this doesn't
even balance so you don't need to go all
the way to validation to find out that
this isn't even legal XML will find that
for you on the fly but once you get to
the point where this is legal XML and
you want to know whether it really
complies with the DTD that's a little
bit more like the compile pass and will
do the validation tell you where the
error is and then you can go through and
actually correct it so that gets you
some of the sort of mechanics of working
with XML but transformation is what's
really important you get your raw data
this way and if you wanted to present it
to somebody you need to transform it
into something other than raw XML
typical thing to do is to transform it
into HTML so if we go to the transform
view we provide you the ability to pick
any style sheet and it's just telling me
it couldn't find a style sheet for that
particular one because I didn't declare
it and I'll pick the well we'll bring in
the list view and the table view and
then I can pick one of those the list
view or the table view and it shows me
the output of this now the output in
this case isn't necessarily exciting
because it's it's going through another
stylesheet which I'll talk about in a
second but if we turn that off then you
begin to see where the power of XML
comes in is this ability to take this
raw data transform it and show it to
somebody in another fashion so now if I
go into my raw data that's actually here
isn't it and say I'd like to change this
by declaring another employee perhaps a
Steve Jobs and go back to my
transformation view and refresh that
then we'll go and apply that same
transformation and get this dynamic data
thing going so this is a set of tools
that doesn't solve your problem because
XML doesn't solve your problem it's a
set of tools to help you get familiar
with XML to help you start learning what
XML is capable of and to take advantage
of some of the XML libraries that we
provide because we provide the the
Xerces parser and so forth and we
provide the libraries that define those
as part of your environment so that's
hopefully an exciting first look at what
we're doing with XML
so if we can get back to the slides here
that's all well and good you know we can
do pure Java development we can do a
bunch of cool stuff with Java beans but
if you're a Macintosh user you know
there's nothing quite like your native
environment and you've seen hints of
some of the facilities that are
available if you went to Steve
Llewellyn's talked on wrapping cocoa
api's in Java beans very cool stuff the
speech synthesis and recognition and
spell-checking neatly wrapped up so that
you can just use them in an environment
like jbuilder and that's a hint that yes
you can get direct access to cocoa stuff
from within jbuilder so you could just
drop those beans in and take advantage
of it but in fact you could go a little
bit further than that
you could go through and start writing
cocoa applications in a pure sense so
we'll look at that but we'll also talk a
little bit about how jbuilder helps you
with new classes in general because
apple provides you with a bunch of
classes that may not be familiar if
you're an mrj user you may know some of
them already if you waited around a
little while there's going to be a bunch
more and what's important about jbuilder
is that it dynamically adapts to any new
class you can throw at it so all of our
coding tools code insight technology our
class browsers and so on and so forth
we'll learn about new classes that you
throw at it and give you those same
kinds of help so we'll look at that a
little bit as well but when it comes
right down to it you're going to be left
with a choice you know you can use these
tools to do pure Java in a
cross-platform sense or write pure Java
code that really rings every last ounce
of performance and flexibility out of
the Macintosh platform we don't make
that choice the choice is up to you so
let's have a little bit of a look at
what we can do in this area now
you may have noticed I don't really
believe in script here kind of like
winging things an awful lot more so this
is is sort of a first crack at some of
this stuff and I'm still waiting for
answers from a couple of Apple engineers
because I started thinking about this on
Monday but it's really interesting to
see that I can sit down and write an
application and take advantage of the
right way to do a cocoa interface which
it's not Java beans so of course that
means interface builder and all the
power of J builder and meld them
together so we're gonna use J builder
and we're gonna use interface builder
and we're gonna tie the two together
into a brand new project so if I create
a new project
and within this project I'm going to
create a new class that's my main class
and let's give this a slightly better
package name so I'll put this in the
cocoa demo package and we'll call this
cocoa demo perhaps generate a main
method and keep my fingers crossed that
I actually remembered what I was doing
and brought along my cocoa mein mm-hmm
please excuse me
okay not entirely scripted but I didn't
want to torture you by going through
this what this is is it's the stuff
necessary to go and find a file and open
it up and I'm gonna go with cocoa demo
dot nib but of course we could deliver
this template with jbuilder we haven't
actually finished jbuilder five for mac
OS ten we haven't signed it off so maybe
I'll sneak that in at the very last
minute and what this does some people
would like that is it it gives you the
the framework necessary to call the this
nib in and get things started and
running as a cocoa application now if I
was really starting from scratch on this
and I had no real idea of how to get to
some of these classes why so long as you
tell jbuilder about the path and so I'm
going to add the set of cocoa classes to
the path jbuilder can find out
dynamically for you about things like oh
I'm gonna need to import some of the
right things
c-calm Apple cocoa Foundation so you can
see it helping me already and finding
the correct import names because I don't
remember them offhand and application so
that if I go and ask you know what are
the methods for NS bundle it'll show me
the bundle for class and bundle with
path methods it will show me that for
bundle with path what I need to do is
pass it a string so all of these kinds
of things are a lot easier to
find and it's not because jbuilder knew
about them ahead of time it's because I
added those classes to my class path
table Durr found them and did the right
thing with them on the fly it can do an
awful lot more if it can find the
sources in terms of parameter names and
so forth but even just the raw class
files give us an immediate start so now
we have this particular application it's
not all that exciting because there is
no cocoa nib well let's go ahead and get
interface builder involved in this so
what I'm doing of course is assuming
thank you the developer applications are
installed on this machine this is a
Developers Conference after all I know
bring interface builder up and we'll go
and open an example nib file and have a
look at the way it's structured what's
been set up in it already so if I go and
open from what quick question because
I've been in an Apple advocate for a
long time but I've got to admit I was
out of it for a while does everybody
intuitively recognize this as the option
or Alt key or is it just me you know is
this that been a standard long enough
sorry that just it gets to me so I'm
gonna go ahead and open this this cocoa
demo dot nib file that I have and we'll
have a look at it this should be really
familiar
everybody built this application at
least once an objective-c
and if you've gone through the the Java
tutorial for how to build this stuff
with project builder you've also seen
the same one what we have here are the
Fahrenheit and Celsius fields that we
can type into and if you look at them
you'll see that sure enough when I hit
enter they'll send an action that I've
got a temperature controller and if we
look at the temperature controller class
which I have here called converter
it has outlets for Celsius and
Fahrenheit and an action convert and
surprise surprise I've got all these
things wired up so that you can get to
the appropriate fields and the
both fire convert methods when you hit
the enter key so I've got everything I
need in place all I need to do is is go
ahead and save this and they've been my
project actually and I created this here
and then go ahead and generate the
source code for cocoa demo got convertor
so I'm going to go ahead and create
files say I want to go ahead and
generate that one into mice into my
source oh that's gonna be bad isn't it
I mistyped to the package name will go
ahead and correct that and and see a few
other table der features while we're at
it you know this this is why I made this
little comment about this is live I
don't really script all the stuff to the
nth degree because I believe I can
probably fix this sort of thing on my
feet so if we go into my JB project
directory and look at source code m and
change this to cocoa demo what I've done
of course has changed the structure of
my project and within J builder now if I
just refresh it notices hey your your
source has changed you've got a
different package
so we'll go ahead and change this to
KOCO demo and get that right and we've
also generated this converter and so the
converter that's been generated for me
by interface builder because interface
builder understands Java Apple's right
with the program here is it's generated
this this stub here that has the
appropriate object references that
interface builder is going to go ahead
and set when I instantiate this nib and
it's got this convert method all I need
to do is fill out the convert method
well I hope you're not too entirely
shocked that I have the converter
pre-written as well so I'm just a little
thing I don't know if this means
anything to you it means a lot to me if
I go ahead and take that same template
and expand it elsewhere it pays
attention to the indent level you know
it's the little things that matter
sometimes thank you and if you look at
this converter it's not all that
exciting it plays a sound just because
it can and then checks to see who it is
that sent it and converts the the
temperature and and stores the result
and the other one so I should have here
an application that if I go ahead and
run and specify my main class here and
it's cocoa demo
that we actually should get and let's go
ahead and hide interface builder because
it's going to confuse situation here we
should have gotten the user interface
let me just a very quickly scan through
this and make sure that there's no
surprises demo converter
what's a J button B it's an import oh my
main class is a button oh goodness
that's evil
thank you that's what I get for going
through this quickly so let's recompile
that and run it and so we get our
temperature converter over here we can
go into the temperature converter and
type of value we get the the conversion
and what we have here is a cocoa
application very very cool stop
I gotta fess up to something it's not a
full-fledged Coco application by the
time I get a few answers from a few more
Apple engineers it will actually have an
icon on the dock but that's what we're
all here for right get answers to the
the ponderable side here but let's go
one step further we have a cocoa
application let's go ahead and drop a
breakpoint in our cocoa application and
go and debug it from within jbuilder so
we can compile this we get it started
we'll get our UI over here and go ahead
and type in a value if the if I go from
the correct field I probably put the
breakpoint in the other direction there
he'll we'll hit that breakpoint from
within jbuilder and then inside jbuilder
I can start examining things and I can
see let's put this in the correct place
I can see for example that sender is an
instance of NS text field and Celsius is
an instance of NS text field and I could
even go ahead and take advantage of what
we like to call the world's largest
tooltip and click on one of these and
browse those directly in place and see
what we can see from the Java side of
the bridge perhaps not a whole bunch but
it's sort of interesting to start
examining the internals of cocoa
directly from within a Java debugger so
again cocoa from Java this is something
that we're going to spend some time
researching and make sure that it's an
option that's available to you
so if we can flip back to the slides
jbuilder is a really interesting product
from a lot of points of view I love that
it's written in Java I love that it's
actually the same object code not just
the same source code but the same object
code running on all these platforms I
love that the first time we've got the
debugger up and running we took it to
Solaris and said what happens if we run
it over here and the debugger worked on
another platform the very first time we
tried it this is really compelling and
powerful stuff to me and as potential
Java developers or as Java developers
out in the audience it should be equally
exciting from your perspective but I
really like how dynamic Java is so when
we had a chance to redesign jbuilder and
really put everything in Java we took
advantage of it and and really to the
hilt went for dynamic discovery of
features it's what we call the J builder
open tools architecture it means that J
builder when you launch it learns about
the things that it can do from scratch
every time you may have worked with
other people's plug-in architectures
before and you may have seen that what's
typical of a plug-in architecture is
that the plugins let you do some cool
things but that there are a lot of
things that they did that you can't take
through the plug-in architecture well J
builder is written with its own open
tools architecture that means our
designer is just a viewer plugged into
our open tools architecture all of our
editor key bindings are plugged in
through the open tools architecture J
builder itself consists of close to 300
open tools loosely clustered together in
fact if you remove all of the open tools
and the libraries they use there's one
class and one interface that's it so
it's a pretty powerful framework and
it's one that we strongly encourage
other people to plug things into so if
you want to tailor the environment you
can you can add new viewers file types
editor behaviors dialogues and much much
more to you know use the typical phrase
but we mean it I mean this is powerful
stuff we've seen third parties do very
very cool things using the open tools
architecture and if you look around
you'll find that there are a number of
of application server vendors and big
companies who have products that they'd
like a Java IDE for but instead of
inventing one from scratch
they can just tailor jbuilder and make
it work for them what's especially cool
about that is anybody who writes an open
tool has to write it in Java and if it's
written in Java it probably already
works on Mac OS 10 so all of those open
tools that have been written you can
take advantage of them the day j-bolt or
hits the street and in fact if you're
brave you could probably take the copy
if it's in your bag go home download a
couple of those open tools and start
using them today so that's really
compelling stuff as I was in the prior
session I realized I wasn't planning on
making a USB device any time soon I just
really wanted to be in the room and
there was not that much point in my
paying a lot of attention so I spent the
last half of the session writing an open
tool that sort of just occurred to me
and let's have a look at what you can do
in half a session when you're worried a
little bit about battery life and
everything else that goes along with
that you can take an idea and almost get
it all the way well if we can oh yes my
apologies I keep not going to the clue
slides I'm probably their their least
favorite presenter by this point I'm
gonna go to my home and have a look at a
proper because one of the things that
people will point to jbuilder and and
say is that you know obviously it's a
pure java environment they build jars
they build Wars they build roarers they
build I mean literally these things are
all valid acronyms ears etc but what
about a double clickable application and
it just you know we're trying to get the
first copy out to get things going as
fast as possible and building a double
clickable application was just too late
in the cycle for us to put in the
product but as an open tool it's a very
different story so what I did is I sat
down and looked at at the process of
what it would take to build an open tool
that gives you a double clickable
application and just to give you kind of
a quick sample
this is all the code and just kind of
what it does the initialize Open tool
goes into our project view mechanism and
registers a context action provider so
that means that in our project view if
we bring up a context menu on something
we should be able to now have new
functionality registered and it goes on
to say this functionality should only
show up if you have a single thing
selected and that thing is a jar file
and it should bring up something that
says create a proper for this jar file
and then go through the motions of
creating the the basic structure and
copying things into it and if I was if I
had any of the documentation handy I
would have actually used the standard
mrj app builder but instead I just sort
of rolled my own this allows me then
theoretically to extend J builder well
let's go ahead and compile it you'll
notice the compile took a whole bunch of
time and what it did was built this app
wrapper jar file that contains the
necessary class and a manifest file that
tells J builder that yes this is an open
tool if I were to go to some application
in J builder without modifications such
as my welcome application and bring up
the context menu for a jar you'd see
that it has a variety of options but it
doesn't have anything for an app wrapper
well let's change that
what I'm going to do is not save all of
this uh I suppose it doesn't matter what
I'm going to do is go and find the
directory that contains all of our open
tool definitions oh that's
and it's in jbuilder 5 its a directory
called open tools it's actually
installed as user writable so that you
can drop things in like my tweet to turn
on hardware graphics acceleration here
or in this case go into my app wrapper
and find that jar file drop a jar file
in and restart jbuilder that's it so the
install installation process is pretty
straightforward you drop something in
the open tools directory start the
product and at launch time we
dynamically discover new capabilities
and this new capability in particular
should be that it can create a double
clickable application now I will admit I
came down to the final seconds of the
session and I had a bug left so it gets
almost all the way and I'll show you
what we have to do to get it the rest of
the way go - welcome jar and note create
a proper for welcome jar now just shows
up this is one of the zillions of places
you can plug things in if you'll excuse
me while I sort of take a diversion
story
we actually got a message through tech
support from a fellow working for a
company that said I'm trying to write a
whole new file system based on XML and
plug it into J builder and it works fine
I can open things and so forth but I
need to be able to go ahead and add to
my source path pointers into my XML file
system and we're able to actually tell
them well that's nice because the open
dialog actually allows you to extend the
set of route elements in the directory
browser with things in any virtual file
system that you've written in Java you
know so little things like that are
getting done by people out there why we
built the architecture for ourselves and
we've just opened it to the rest of the
world I'm sorry again a little bit of a
sidetrack
topic but let's go ahead and create a
proper for this and boom it's gone off
and it's done the basic work if I were
to actually go to that welcome project
and the Welcome project is in our
samples and the table there framework
and welcome I'd find welcome Dada so
it's built me a little app wrapper
unfortunately it's left out one line in
one file and forgotten to set the
executable bit on something sigh last
minute demos I thought you'd be
forgiving you're a developer audience
after all and real demos are always much
better than canned demos so let's go in
and have a look at at this welcome app
and it created its everybody else get
two DS sometimes see it's left off one
line in not be executable it's left off
one line in a config file to specify the
main class sigh I should have known
and it's forgotten to set the executable
bit on Java launcher I'll get both of
those things in there shortly and then
we should have see it's on the dock it
should be loading bits and pieces of
swing as we speak
and have I guess live demos does anybody
remember the last thing I did and
welcome at before I turned it into a
double clickable application let's see
what the launcher does activating
lightweight uh XY layout
I didn't bundle my XY layout which I was
still using in there so you can see we
have got double clickable it shows up on
the dock if I had code that would
actually execute it would actually run
so to clarify of course this isn't a
feature of jbuilder this is a feature I
whipped up in a few minutes during the
last session you can do the same will
continue to do the same and will
continue to make sure that if we find
cool things we can do on the Mac OS 10
platform open tools are one easy way to
slip things out the side door without
having to wait for another release of
the product one very last thing by the
way because it never gets brought up and
is it a Macintosh like thing no but some
of us here have to deal with reality
constraints how many people here have to
automate a build process for a project
alright graphical tools work real well
for that you run into some problems so
one of the things that we did is made
sure that J builder actually has a
command line behavior so in this case we
can say things like J builder build the
project at developer applications see if
I can find this one again J builder
framework samples welcome welcome dot
jpx and it'll kick out the command line
version of the J builder build process
and do everything in my project
definition it'll check the Java
dependencies compiled necessary files
build archives build war files ear files
you name it
it's the attention to detail that makes
it obvious we've been at this for a
little bit so if we can switch back to
the slides the preview CD you've got I
want to mention really briefly you
definitely must get apple's java vm
update yes you can run it on Mac OS 10
the initial release will bring up a
warning letting you know that it's going
to be a little bit suboptimal on that
release because the debugger really
desperately needs some JDK 131
technology and also of course we benefit
from a lot of the work the team has been
pouring their hearts into over the past
couple of months since the release of
Mac OS 10 you need to go to the Borland
community community site to get a
license key but don't worry you can opt
out of any possible contact so we'll
just make sure that we get the license
key to you but if you're interested in
jbuilder information then that's a way
to get make sure that you get further
information from us to let you know when
jbuilder for Mac is actually going to
ship
you